this video is brought to you by Manta
sleep hi this video has nothing to do
with Forrest Gump Forrest Gump is a 1994
inspirational drama starring Tom Hanks
and is one of his most famous roles that
is until he became famous for just being
Tom Hanks and zoomer's unwittingly made
the correct decision to maybe skip this
movie and it's safe to say that Forrest
Gump is not remembered fondly because I
can hardly say that it's Remembered at
all Forrest Gump is a simple movie
incredibly straightforward it's the
story of a man's life in America his
story strings together a number of
significant events in American history
that he somehow managed to be a part of
there are no iconic shots that
particularly stand out other than him
sitting on a bench and running despite
this it won a whopping eight Academy
Awards at the 67th Oscars out of 13
nominations the record for most
nominations is shared between three
films at 14 by the way though it could
have had the 14 nominations if it had
pushed Robin Wright for best actress
though honestly that your best actress
was a tough category though really best
actresses usually a more interesting
category than best actor in my humble
opinion oh look at me I'm a man with
some feelings who's done something
horrible notably Forrest Gump basically
took a lot of awards that should have
gone to movies that even at the time
critics knew would stand the test of
time better according to every film
studies program or movie critic either
the Shawshank Redemption or Pulp Fiction
deserved those accolades Pulp Fiction
specifically holds a little bit more
attention in the modern media landscape
fitting perhaps uncomfortably into a
category of work such as Scarface Fight
Club and The Godfather for which a group
of CIS men based their ideas of the
modern masculine all the while being
blissfully ignorant to the fact that
each one of these examples serves to
undermine and subvert traditional
patriarchal values as they manifest in
society's different projections of men
also movies about organized crime of one
sort of another anyway Pulp Fiction's
most obvious claim to fame isn't really
for the reflection of intellectual
self-criticism that it has instead the
film is remembered for its Vibes that is
to say in an era of film which was
become coming more and more obsessed
with technique and formatting Pulp
Fiction sought to recreate a 70s
Nostalgia for serialized programming and
what we refer to as B cinema including
but not limited to black exploitation
films for which Tarantino holds great
reverence the goal of this aesthetic in
Tarantino's larger body of work is to
present lurid themes in provocative ways
it's safe to say that each one of
Tarantino's films can be described as a
Pastiche of different kinds of
exploitation films if not explicitly
being exploitation films themselves Pulp
Fiction in particular exemplifies these
sensibilities as this story is a
collection of vignettes about various
characters narrated out of chronology
hearkening to the early days of VHS home
rentals where you might watch a movie
series out of sequence depending upon
which tape was in stock on any
particular Friday night for instance I
watched the original 9 Friday the 13th
movies in the order of nine seven eight
one two six four three five now
Tarantino has said and done some
questionable things in his career I'm
not making any excuses for that however
that can't diminish what he's brought to
the table as a filmmaker a screenwriter
who taught himself to direct because he
didn't have the budget for a director is
now regarded as one of American Cinema's
greats though from one film geek to
another the man is so single-mindedly
obsessed with movies that it's hard not
to admire his earnesty from everything
Tarantino has said about his
Inspirations he has no objective to make
a parody of or correct any sensibilities
of one of the b-movies that he loves so
much Tarantino genuinely has a fondness
for this style of film and through his
work presents his audience with reasons
to share in that fondness the objective
is not to replace B cinema but to make
contributions to it the more you watch
Tarantino's Inspirations you realize
that there are very few visual elements
that are strictly original much of his
work that is considered iconic is
borrowed directly from directors that he
would not hesitate to describe as
masters of The Craft but most film nerds
probably have never even heard of he's
just very good at chopping it all up
into the right size pieces and throwing
it into a blender and in the process he
Champions many of the sensibilities
themes and Aesthetics of low rent 70s
films the critics of the day decried as
trash Tarantino's artistic message is
that they were never trash people just
weren't watching them the right way
probably more so even than the Shawshank
Redemption which received none
of the 70 Academy Awards that it was
nominated for Pulp Fiction's losses to
Forest Gump are considered some of the
great Oscar snubs in history though it's
clear to see why Forrest Gump's primary
objective was to lull its audience into
nostalgic ego death by trailing a plot
of feel-good emotional beats through an
unlikely interconnected through line of
America the content of the movie is
problematic to say the least starting
with but not limited to an able-bodied
creative team generating an empowerment
myth around a character with
Developmental and physical disabilities
justifying and anyone Can Make It in
America mentality which Glides
dangerously into encouraging casual
ableism we see any number of instances
of how it should be possible for the
physically disabled to just get over
their disabilities and become a football
star for someone to go through the
Vietnam War without any lingering trauma
and scolding those with it and the less
said about the book it's based on the
better you think Tarantino is
problematic the presentation of
nostalgia in this movie was so toxic at
Borders on American cultural propaganda
it's this weird unification of political
sensibilities conservative viewpoints
appreciate seeing the underdog do the
bootstraps thing especially without
complaining about how hard it is to be
disabled in America liberals like it
because it showcases America as a land
of freedom and opportunity where all the
heavy lifting has already been done so
they can say not in my backyard without
feeling racist ableist or classist and
for everyone watching it who was born in
the 70s or earlier they get the Rick
Dalton moment of spotting this fictional
person going through that thing they
lived through and that's why it got
Oscars AIDS is tragic when a straight
white woman gets it drug use is
sympathetic only when it's to cope with
childhood trauma and nobody needs
therapy for anything exploring the
realities of these situations and a
seeming refusal to acknowledge how much
luck Forest has for being in the right
place at the right time with an amount
of emotional fortitude that is
unrealistic to expect of anyone is
something the film does not do fun fact
I had no idea I hated Forrest Gump this
much before beginning to write this
script however Pulp Fiction and by
extension Tarantino's body of work also
relies heavily on Nostalgia though it's
a different kind of nostalgia whereas
Forrest Gump is specifically Guided by
an invisible hand through a series of
various events in American history
thereby tricking you into believing that
this story is quintessentially American
Tarantino's work confronts the audience
with various cinematic Style from the
past even though Jackie Brown takes
place in the 1990s when the movie was
made the sensibilities remind you of a
movie that happened in the 1970s and
even though Django Unchained takes place
in the 1800s the sensibilities remind
you of a western from the 1960s Kill
Bill vol 1 has sensibilities like a 70s
Hong Kong action movie while Volume 2
smashes together the sensibilities of
Kurosawa and Leone the nostalgic
elements are in the meta narrative the
events in these movies are not familiar
however the techniques framing devices
themes narrative Styles acting choices
Aesthetics and visual references what we
refer to as the sensibilities of
artistic media are reminiscent of older
Styles oftentimes the kind of media we
had grown up with and while this style
of B-movie never really received a claim
while they were being made back in the
day creators who have the ability and
ambition to recreate these styles are
celebrated again Tarantino is not
validating an existing artistic
sensibility he is Dem demonstrating that
these elements had always been valid
something to keep in mind for going into
this video which is as stated not about
Forrest Gump
but it's also not about Pulp Fiction so
let's talk about Barbie
thank you
this video is brought to you by Manta
sleep Manta makes the world's best sleep
masks and sleep accessories a huge part
of their mission is taking a stand
against hustle culture and giving naps a
PR makeover and their Pro nap movement
the pro nap movement is about rejecting
counterproductive nap shaming corporate
BS and reclaiming what should have
always been yours in the first place
Your vitality one of the ways they're
doing this is by launching their line of
specialized sleep masks these aren't
just flimsy pieces of fabric you throw
over your eyes at bedtime these have
cushioned infinitely adjustable eye cups
to fit any face you can get a
traditional sleep mask a mask designed
for cooling one that produces steam a
weighted mask a silk masks with
unmatched ventilation and even one with
built-in speakers as a huge fan of ASMR
that's my favorite it has razor thin
headphones and 20 hours of battery life
take control of your sleep and get some
of your own Barbie magic back with a
manta sleep mask just use my code
s-o-m-e-r-t-o-n at the link below to get
the kind of Beautyrest only Barbie could
dream of
foreign
awaited movie about the titular line of
dolls by Mattel which have been a staple
of American business since 1959. it
seemed for some time that this Barbie
movie would remain a development hell
due to the divisive nature of a toy
which is often criticized for its
portrayal of women and due to the
divisive nature of Amy Schumer who was
originally poised to star before the
creative team switched to Margot Robbie
and Greta Gerwig we almost got a very
different movie thank sea fillers love
them for some reason this movie got very
hype very quickly even before the review
embargo was lifted critics who saw early
screenings were already speculating
about Academy Awards attention and
likewise for two weeks following the
release it was difficult to find empty
seats at any time of day some who would
live through the 70s compared this to
the release of Star Wars Barbie earns
that comparison the thing about Barbie
that strikes me as the most remarkable
is what was just under discussion here
its sensibilities to the Gaze there is a
reason we first flock towards Barbie
memes from the teaser trailer which was
a parody of 2001 A Space Odyssey and
then participated in the barberheimer
discourse as it became apparent that
Barbie was going to be more than counter
programming for Christopher Nolan's
Oppenheimer it was direct competition
from the very first leaks of Barbie's
Cowboy outfit spotted in Venice Beach to
the Absurd reference to 2001 this movie
felt familiar to us granted it's one
thing to throw out camp sensibilities in
a teaser trailer but the entire movie
really was this campy which taking the
film itself out of consideration it
should not be the case that it can't be
rump between LA and Barbie land should
be taken as seriously as it has been
both for Technical and creative early
Awards contention all the while being a
cultural Sensation that caused a pink
shortage around the world Camp is
associated with movies like Barbarella
Elvira or Batman and Robin Camp is what
happens when you fail so hard at making
serious drama that you create Mommy
Dearest or show Girls Camp is for silly
theater campus for the queers Camp isn't
supposed to be for proper prestigious
Cinema Camp isn't supposed to go
mainstream Studio Executives couldn't
tell the difference between Death
Becomes Her and There's Something About
Mary well this is the problem with Camp
as an artistic sensibility sensibilities
are called that because they're not a
proper genre and they're largely
unqualifiable outside of direct examples
like B-movie Aesthetics Camp is largely
dependent on context and the ability to
establish context where this is not only
possible
but where this is the norm Death Becomes
Her leaves no question that any single
aspect of the narrative is outside the
norm whatsoever from beginning to end it
is the world that is Camp and the
characters are elevated to exist within
it the context is the comedy the setting
needs to do some heavy lifting to
establish this that way by the time the
main characters decide they need to
kidnap their ex-husband so he can
continue doing their makeup to make them
look alive they're already participating
in this heightened campy World meanwhile
There's Something About Mary is rooted
almost entirely within the context of
the real world There's Something About
Mary means that this particular Mary
though more specifically the events
surrounding her are outside the realm of
normal but to discuss a distance from
reality the audience needs to maintain
their view of reality elevated
performances are standouts mainly
because Ben Stiller's character the
audience's cipher is depicted as just a
normal guy trying to get the girl again
this is a world where according to the
sensibilities of the movie people should
be acting normal and there is a tension
drawn to people who are elevate rated
the elevated characters are framed as
Outsiders to Conventional real world
sensibilities Camp C akes to shift the
social conventions that we take for
granted something like shaking someone's
hand in a job interview is a social
construct and is a learned behavior
within the parameters of euro-american
etiquette this is not to be confused
with though within the hegemony it
almost always is a more Universal
element of human nature for which
instinctively hugging people you care
about is more typical thus to the people
who do not exist within the framework of
euro-american cultural imperialism a
handshake is a gesture that doesn't mean
anything at all conventions around
gender sexuality etiquette and formality
can be subverted because they only exist
insofar as we acknowledge them we know
this because
though gender exists in every
pre-colonial culture the number of
genders and social roles of each gender
can differ vastly likewise in Camp the
media in question can construct its own
independent rules about how one should
act for instance Faye dunaway's Joan
Crawford becomes the gold standard for
how people are expected to behave in
this world of Mommy Dearest
unfortunately it's not an exact science
dunaway's acting choices were so
outrageous that it eclipses everything
else on screen without adequate framing
devices namely another character to act
as her foil or stronger direction to
properly frame this performance the
audience can take it for granted that
her degree of intensity is just how
people are supposed to act in this world
she is the lead character after all and
so all performances that do not meet her
by comparison are the Absurd ones
granted it really helps the Joan
Crawford herself was a very elevated
person in a very elevated world it's
easy to make Camp about show business
because the day-to-day reality of
existing in this world is outrageous
without a framing device to
contextualize how Faye Dunaway fits into
reality as a human person she becomes a
caricature and a scene which is not
fictitious for people who have lived
through abusive parents can become
comedic to people who haven't simply
because the media does not equip the
audience to understand how this
particular human interaction fits into
the context of real life and this
relationship dichotomy between real and
hypothetical is particularly important
Barbie
in this work of fiction there are at
least two parallel worlds there is our
world and then there is Barbie land
Barbie land's existence is under
explained but through context and
framing we can gather how they are
connected Barbie land is the Hub of
collective consciousness of people
actively partaking in Barbie the way
people in the real world choose to
engage with the idea of Barbie
influences events in Barbie land and the
variations of Barbie which are
theoretically infinite the politics
Logistics and laws of physics in Barbie
land are errantly dismissed in a way
that is communicated directly and
indirectly to the audience what are the
Ken's day
I don't know the rules of the real world
are shifted on a fundamental level
creating an alternate universe that can
be constructed on a camp platform
alternate universes are an excellent
framing device for camp this is half the
reason why show business is so Rife with
Camp sensibilities by all accounts
getting into American show business is a
whole different spectrum of reality
granted if you wanted to pick a parallel
world to American politics but
inexcusably replace all male stereotypes
with women Camp is one tool that you can
lean on to justify the mechanics of that
world and given that camp has a cultural
background in subverting gender to
comedic effect it's a good match and
furthermore when you're making a movie
about a line of dolls existing in
another world where dolls typify the
boundaries of Womanhood they are meant
to represent in a plotted discourse
about the intersection of woman and the
idea of women why not just
Go the whole way the collection of
Barbies in this place is governed by the
real world Collective consciousness of
the idea of Barbie and how people play
with Barbie casting Margot Robbie as
stereotypical Barbie is an act of
casting so inspired it seems to be the
only valid choice but Barbies are also
doctors politicians reporters authors
lawyers astronauts and even construction
workers
instruction site we need that good
feminine energy any idea that someone
playing with Barbie has about Barbie
will present itself in Barbie land
according to the driving philosophy of
Barbie women can be and are anything
this is just a little bit more literal
in Barbie land but this works for good
and bad things as presented by the
driving plot of the movie look at your
upper thigh
it's not cellulite that's going to
spread everywhere and then you're going
to start getting sad and Wishy
complicated no
this kind of ubiquitous Barbie
experience facilitates and justifies how
Barbies would have access to this range
of knowledge and experience the audience
doesn't need to question it because
Barbie land isn't the real world there
is no reason not to take it for granted
just like in the real world we seem to
just take it for granted that women earn
70 cents on the dollar for every dollar
a man makes Camp is the best asset the
film has for engaging in academic
discourse which also cues the audience
in to read deeper into the subtext Camp
as a phenomenon has been predominantly
associated with Notions of extravagance
irony and theatricality the concept of
Camp media is deeply rooted in gendered
perceptions and has over time come to be
associated with a predominantly feminine
sensibility which is why I would argue
many critics look down upon it but with
Barbie camp instead of functioning as a
sensibility functions rather as the very
framing device for Barbie land so there
is license to afford the plot some
silliness as well as intellectualism
money is not speech and corporations
have have no free speech rights to begin
with so any claim on their part to be
exercising or right is just their
attempt to turn our democracy into a
plutocracy if I wasn't severely injured
I would beat you off right now Ken if
I'll be chop with you any day cat
nobody's going to beat anyone off
neither of those two performances seem
out of place here Barbie is a toy which
means that naturally frivolity is going
to be a component of how people engage
with this idea however as Barbie is an
adult featured doll directed at allowing
girls to develop expectations about
adulthood outside of motherhood Barbie
land is naturally going to reflect the
use of this toy to project those
fantasies a hush balls over the general
assembly as Stacy approaches the podium
to deliver what will no doubt be a
stirring and memorable address
do you guys everything about dying
oh this is where Barbie gets interesting
from a literary standpoint because while
it may just seem to use Camp
sensibilities it also presents a
possible evolution of Camp through the
use of Camp to present the audience with
unfiltered gender Theory at which point
Camp is less of an aesthetic and more of
a literary device whereas before Camp
relied on literary devices in order to
present itself defamiliarization the
carnivalesque irony maximalism Etc here
Camp itself is the vessel being used to
present what amounts to gender Theory
101 which isn't an insult by any means
it's rare that any kind of gender
discourse makes it into a movie these
days when giving a woman a sword is the
least amount of effort it takes to evoke
a collection of basement dwellers to
rise up and act so obnoxiously that the
world thinks that there's just so many
of them when there's like eight Kemp
allows Barbie to pass off these academic
elements as just
part of the absurdist comedy everything
exists to expand and Elevate the
presence of men
just because this is framed as a joke
and it is comedic
shouldn't suggest it's not true this may
very well be quoting or paraphrasing a
textbook comedy here is just an angle
about how this information is presented
if my life wasn't funny
it would just be true
and that is completely unacceptable this
isn't entirely unique to the Barbie
movie cartoons will often engage with
real world phenomena in comedic ways
what makes Barbie Stand Out is the
dichotomy between the real world and
Barbie land the transit between the two
places in Barbie land Camp really can
only function in a theoretical way
offering commentary about Concepts but
no real application the structure of the
Barbie movie allows for the camp
sensibility to not only pass into the
real world but afford a framing device
for using Camp to directly confront
elements of our reality in a way that
would not have been possible in the
campy at theoretical Barbie land
the shift in atmosphere brings Camp
sensibilities to the real world
viscerally it makes sense for Barbie and
Ken to deconstruct the real world in a
way that aligns with the direct
defamiliarized sensibilities that exist
in Barbie land it's like saying the
quiet part loud and there's no undertone
of violence mine very much has an
undertone of violence through Barbie and
Ken's existence in a subverted reality
we see their expectations of the real
world shift dramatically where once it
was taken for granted the Kens as men
were designated second-class citizens he
is confronted with a different reality
rather than Camp challenging the
sensibilities of reality as we are
accustomed to reality is challenging the
sensibilities of Camp which through the
First Act the audience has been
conditioned to take for granted suddenly
there's water coming out of that glass
I'm not used to that having anything in
it Camp has a role in being able to
afford these characters insight into the
real world and by proxy the audience
that one cannot garnish from existing
within it and taking it for granted
Barbie land being another world entirely
sets a very literal framing device not
only for camp but a commentary on Camp
where Barbie land is a vessel for camp
and the real world is literally
desaturated Camp sensibilities look
acceptable in a camp environment though
in a realistic environment they stick
out bearing in mind that this is an
absurdist comedy and much of the
delivery exists within that style of
humor and I would just like to inform
you I do not have a vagina
and he does not have a penis in the real
world there is no attempt to interject
Camp sensibilities into the plot human
characters largely act in accordance
with the conventional etiquette of our
world with the exception of the Mattel
headquarters provided Mattel's proximity
to Barbie land many of the same
mechanics from there also seem to have
permeated the workplace they after all
owe their success to selling molded
plastic which vaguely resembles a human
woman and acts as a vessel for the idea
of a woman Will Ferrell's Mattel CEO is
also not necessarily a CEO but befits
the most idealized idea of a CEO you
think I spent my entire life in
boardroom because of a bottom line no I
got into this business because of little
girls and their dreams and the least
creepy way possible while stereotypical
Barbie threw the growth and development
of her personhood becomes disillusioned
with her perfect plastic life and opts
for a wider range of lived experiences
it seems like Will Ferrell's character
is much more at home in the absurdism of
Barbie land Mr Mattel at least relax
call me mother
no thank you and honestly observing how
people pass between the real world and
Barbie land is in and of itself worthy
of commentary regarding the effect of
the ideas of the real world versus the
inability of the real world of permeate
ideas real world sensibilities when they
enter the realm of camp
become Camp okay kids it's time to run
out and get the new depression Barbie
she wears sweatpants all day and night
and this applies to the patriarchy thank
God this movie finally talks about
masculine camp for so long everyone
always Associated camp with femininity
and feminine Expressions but we now have
a visceral example of how easily Camp
sensibility can be retooled to apply to
masculine spaces too and we're not even
going to talk about professional
wrestling because that's a that's a
whole other video there's a whole other
video about that
yeah it's coming the exact mechanics of
how a single can applied patriarchal
values to an entire world are not as
important this is a world constructed on
play-like logic and concept why were the
Barbies corrupted well Camp as a device
allows for a focus on theme and message
how it happened is significantly less
important than why it happened the short
answer is that Barbie land has already
abundantly established itself as not
holding itself to the same logical
standard as our world we don't need to
be able to rationalize what's happening
through the Ken's takeover of Barbie
land we see a feminine perspective on
what it's like to exist within
exclusively masculine sensibilities and
how if left unchecked a group of men can
quickly descend into that same kind of
absurdism that we saw in the opening
section of the movie The sensibilities
remain the same but the aesthetic
completely changes Sublime the framing
is antagonistic Barbie land functions on
a particular status quo such as our
world and when the status quo is upset
in our world there are significant
powers that seek to divide and conquer
to re-establish that the presentation of
these new mask camps sensibilities are
almost identical to the earlier
sensibilities we have earlier and it's
girls night
hurry up the president's here I am
you're welcome and then come on in I'll
play the guitar at you we observed the
first scene as camp
and yet I think I can say declaratively
that we see the second one as cringe I
feel as if the presentation and context
for these deliveries are fairly similar
and same with all the Ken's chaotic
Ridiculousness from excessive veneration
of the select group of highlighted films
and strategies for picking up girls the
general aesthetic seems to be much more
unappealing simply because
due to the range of expression afforded
to Men by patriarchal values there is a
greater freedom to push these
sensibilities into the real world the
reason we see this as cringe whereas the
Dreamhouse aesthetic was Camp is because
we are confronted with kendam
sensibilities so often there is nothing
really to de-familiarize we live in
Kingdom already it's just as heightened
as Barbie land but we in the real world
have already acclimated to it you can't
tell me that the sensibility is
expressed in movies like die hard Rambo
The Expendables The Fast and Furious
aren't drawing from the same incredibly
heightened Joan crawford-esque pool of
themes as Showgirls and yet there is a
refusal to mark them as Camp because I
would argue we simply take this boys
will be boys mentality about boy things
and boy Aesthetics as a cultural for
granted fast X will never be considered
Camp except by those of appropriately
refined taste because we exist in a
world where that is the for granted
element of gender expression and that
isn't to say that it's bad for those who
haven't been paying attention to this
channel for the last three years
I love campy things the problem becomes
when we hold that as the standard for
gendered media expectations for a young
boy growing up saturated in that media
what kind of man is that going to
generate as opposed to women whose
gender sensibilities when elevated to
those Heights are considered to be
deviations from the norm at which point
we invent the term Camp to describe
those sensibilities in a way the Fast
and the Furious Shenanigans are just a
normal action movie Megan is just camp
and here we find an underlying theme
probably one of the core themes of
Barbie that the real fantasy of Barbie
land was that it existed as a space
where women did not need to justify
their Womanhood and of course this also
shouldn't suggest that the patriarchy
doesn't also put this Spotlight on men
as well as evidenced by the countless
generations of men who do terrible
things in order to live up to the
example of a perceived father figure who
also sought The elusive pride of his
father figure but it's not Daddy Issues
if you're a man society just holds it up
up his boys being boys though what many
of us who chronically exist in gender
discourse may not understand is that
these concepts are almost entirely
unexplored by those outside of queerness
and femininity and now I just gave each
of you of a certain age an uncomfortable
flashback to that time you were drinking
with your old friends from high school
who are now straight married wherein one
of their spouses proceeds to lay out
this whole finger-wagging discourse
about gender and they're not really
saying anything wrong but the tone of
voice and the authority of the wagging
finger seems to indicate that this is a
grand Treatise that only the most
critical of thinkers have discerned
meanwhile this is the kind of stuff that
you live with day in and day out so it's
not really as groundbreaking as your
friend's spouse seems to think it is but
they don't really understand this when
you try to explain it to them because
they live in a Suburban bubble where
they use homemaking to recuse themselves
from participating in gender discourse
but what pisses you off is that they
still feel entitled to their two bits in
spite of the recusal Barbie's
lighthearted approach to projecting
these elements of gender Theory to that
end function to great effect by
communicating these ideas to that
audience and this was only possible
through its use of Camp sensibilities to
present them which as I said is a
remarkable and creative use for camp in
a way that has not really been widely
received by the public at large before
especially not as critically
successfully as this movie has been but
that raises some questions about how the
future of camp in cinema will play out
whether like through Pulp Fiction there
will be a sudden retrospective
veneration of Camp as there was for the
exploitation films or if it will just be
accepted as an outlier
which prompts us to observe how Camp is
manifesting in other examples today
Camp has become an increasingly
prominent form of comedic delivery in
the prior few years and very likely due
to covet 19. when larger Studios head to
postpone Productions and releases of new
content smaller Studios were able to
adapt to regulations producing media
which required smaller casts and Crews
I've already spoken about everything
everywhere all at once which though I
hadn't mentioned it does lean heavily
into Camp also to its benefit is one of
the rare Blockbuster examples of a
camp-oriented movie for which a starring
role is a queer character Camp is used
as a delivery device to justify a
marriage of outrageous concepts with
deeply resonant themes also noteworthy
for earning an Oscar for horror icon
Jamie Lee Curtis whose wheelhouse of
slasher movies should have been a black
mark against her that was only earlier
this year
whether by chance or if the film's
immediate success hearkened an overnight
shift in cultural values spurring
editors and directors to nudge
in-development projects towards this
kind of camp we have seen in the year
and a half since everything everywhere
all at once its release a marked
injection of these sensibilities into
acclaimed Cinema among the most high
profile examples is polarizing divisive
writer and director Ryan Johnson's Glass
Onion starring Daniel Craig and Janelle
Monae Monet who attempted to outheard
their self as pansexual with a song
about how great vaginas were while
wearing high fashion vulva trousers was
misconstrued as making a generalized
girl power Anthem to which she had to
make a public statement clarifying that
no it was gay [ __ ] and that was all
Steven Tyler can make a song by the same
name and everybody gets it but when
Janelle Monae does it it's all Vagina
Monologues girl how much sexuality do we
have to rub in your face to be
acknowledged exactly in Glass Onion a
sequel to knives out a murder mystery
which makes it abundantly clear who the
murderer is but does its best to
Gaslight you in doubting yourself
Janelle Monae plays Andy brand she is a
successful businesswoman who was the
brains behind Alpha a tech company
alluded to be similar to Facebook or
Amazon she was zucked out of the company
by her ex-friend and business partner
miles Braun Ron is very closely based on
and when Andy wounds his ego by blocking
miles's attempt to invest in a highly
unstable fuel source because he thinks
that anything new means the future of
everything he convinces their friend
group to help cheat Andy out of her
shares of alpha when Andy teases that
she found a pivotal piece of evidence
that will not only prove that Alpha was
her intellectual property but will
remove miles from the company and
destroy the reputation of her suddenly
no longer best friends miles murders her
Monet also plays Andy's twin sister
Helen an Alabama Elementary School
teacher with nobody else in the cast
except for the killer aware that Andy is
dead Helen reaches out to gentleman
sleuth Benoit blah and he hatches a plan
to figure out which one of the friend
group killed Andy by making everyone
think that Helen is Andy these movies
are less about keeping you on the edge
of your seat to guess who done it and
more about showing you a myriad of
reasons about why rich people are just
the worst the plot itself could be
passed for drama we have a white man
murdering a black woman to not only
steal her success but also her Legacy
and to get away with it scot-free which
is tragic though aside from the dark
plot there's this
ugly betty-esque absurdity hiding behind
bushes solving a grandchild dramatic
staged murder chronic name dropping of
cultural references and of course Benoit
blah in general specific plot points
such as the twin swap feel perfectly at
home with camp but there are other
instances a character being murdered on
an island and the Coast Guard being
unable to come because miles insists on
a dock that's more of an art piece than
something useful and therefore is only
functional at low tide generating a
character you hate so much that you
really don't mind watching the
destruction of the Mona Lisa just to get
at them Benoit blah who at this point is
a confirmed gay man spends about five
minutes reading elot I mean miles Brawn
miles Brawn miles Brawn for Filth again
these movies are more about how terrible
rich people are and likewise they seem
to paint people like miles Braun as
possessing so much wealth that they have
the option of literally and figuratively
separating themselves from reality and
if you have the kind of wealth that
extends in into the billions
constructing the kind of Grecian Island
Paradise home that would bankrupt most
Nations
is just a drop in the bucket at which
point it becomes normal to spend the
kind of Fortune that would be otherwise
needed to eradicate homelessness in a
reasonably large city to install a giant
glass Monument on the top floor of your
Island Home complete with a rotating
display case that contains a custom
designed car it becomes normal to
contract Jillian flinton to craft a
convoluted fictional murder mystery in
order to entertain a handful of friends
for the weekend it becomes normal to
hide an invitation in a multi-layer
puzzle box because all the other rich
people in this movie take it for granted
that this is normal and thus our POV
character becomes highlighted as the
abnormal one because she does not have
the time or patience for this [ __ ]
however the concern for me is that well
if Camp is going mainstream what does
that mean for the kind of comedy and
heightened drama we have been
associating with Cam for years as far as
murder mysteries go both clue and Glass
Onion May both be camp but clue seems to
lean into camp in a bit more of a
fundamental way than Glass Onion does a
concern I would have is that more
prestigious creators are taking the
wacky Whimsical absurdism of camp and
desaturating it to make it more
palatable and align with the more
emotional drama of good character
construction rather than just Flames
flame Flames flames
on the side of my face because as much
as I like seeing Camp become elevated to
valid use as a filmmaking tool for
helping audiences identify with
characters in outrageous situations I
don't want to see movies like clue get
priced out because they can't do camp
with a special effects budget well
part of the wonders of being alive today
means that you can take a relatively
small budget and get a reasonably
convincing CGI bear who is ripped on
cocaine to great effect
do you find yourself lethargic are you
unwilling to engage in society at large
do you have difficulty finding enjoyment
in things you used to love are you
struggling to find ways to enjoy a story
that spends most of his time trying to
overbuild a world in the expectation it
will be paid off in sequels do you
expect all movies to be the same and
become afraid when they have different
pacing or plot beats that feel strange
and unfamiliar you may be suffering from
too many [ __ ] Marvel movies people
who suffer from too many Marvel movies
will speculate endlessly with their
friends about possible spin-off ideas
for television programs but won't tell
them that they're exhausted from having
to do hours of binging and research to
understand what's going on at any given
episode because they just don't know
what else keeps the Friendship alive if
exposed to too many [ __ ] Marvel
movies at a young age you may even
reject well-made films because they
don't have the Staples of Marvel movies
or you may gauge the quality of Cinema
based on arbitrary Marvel values such as
the suit up sequence but there is a
solution ask your doctor about taking a
break from morph movies side effects may
include a sudden realization of how the
Marvel formula has permitted all movies
being made in the last 10 years
disappointment movies that you don't
need to speculate about in order to
enjoy a lack of dopamine from ignoring
Marvel movie announcements a drastic
increase of unrealistic expectations for
filmmakers judging a movie entirely
based on the quality of CGI and
automatic consumption that anything that
is popular is automatically a poor
quality potterheads are especially at
risk if you find yourself revisiting
Harry Potter contact your doctor
immediately it's time to start taking a
break from Marvel movies because there's
more to life
all right
foreign
side effect to The Fall of the House of
feige is that movie theaters actually
have screens for things other than CGI
compositing disaster spandex soap operas
now for which a decrease in Creative
oversight results in a sprawling
cinematic Empire owing its Twilight
years to a collective of fans who have
been gaslit into believing that the
Marvel Cinematic formula is the only
possible let alone valid method of
presenting a film for which audiences
only remaining primary draw to these
movies isn't to enjoy these stories but
to be able to participate in online
speculation about who may or may not be
Mephisto and I do mean that theaters
actually have screens for smaller movies
now a read of some people who in rural
American communities could not see
everything everywhere all at once when
it came out because Spider-Man no way
home was still holding all the screens
at smaller theaters three months after
its release but with Marvel movie news
chilling the crap out for a little bit
not to mention this strikes we're
getting exposure to the kind of movie
news that we haven't seen since
before Obama suddenly you don't need to
make a CGI spectacle trailer to pull
attention at Hall age at Comic-Con
smaller movies from smaller Studios can
attract audiences through more
traditional methods without getting
drowned out by A Chorus of Marvel movies
and movies trying to be Marvel movies
which is great for things like
everything everywhere all at once and
Barbie but also good for movies that
don't need to be highly stylized and
have the backing of wealthy sponsors in
Marvel's Russo refugees in the last two
years I've seen a public interest in
Camp that has been growing cocaine bear
Megan and the blackening am I allowed to
talk about the blackening have found
audiences that would not have been
afforded to them under the reign of
Marvel the blackening in particular I'm
going to talk about the blackening I
found to be an amazing archetypal
example of how Camp can be used to join
an absurdist commentary of current
social trends namely being black in
America within Blackness and within the
white hegemony as well as present very
real moments as I said earlier Camp
seems to be an excellent tool for
creators to distinguish what is real and
what is fantasy in a way where neither
disrupts the tone but then again in
spite of my my initial framing around
Barbie perhaps suddenly validating camp
that may have been misleading Barbie
seems to be a very high profile instance
of brazen Camp being accepted by a mass
audience and critics alike because for
all we associate camp with being
frivolous or lesser than other serious
sensibilities all of the aforementioned
creators Greta Gerwig the Daniels and
Ryan Johnson are oscar-winning and
oscar-nominated and there are other
acclaimed directors who lean heavily
into Camp as well bosslerman takawatiti
Wes Anderson and jorgos lanthamos are
all building prestigious careers of the
kind of humor and absurdism that had
Spice World panned by critics though
venerated as a legend of Camp by critics
today on one level this may be
surprising however a closer examination
of cinematic history shows that this
style of theatricalism was once the
status quo for drama and comedy alike
there are arguments to be made for
limitations of what camp can be for many
within the queer Community they may say
the camp can only be in regard to things
about or directed at queer people that
there is an unspoken Democratic order
within the community that nominates
content to be held up as camp that only
a queer Collective of lived-in
sensibilities can designate Camp
alternatively there are creatives who
would reject having a camp label on
their content due to the queer
association with camp Camp was not a
direct intentional component of who's
Afraid of Virginia wool for All About
Eve films with legendary impact and
accolades the thing about camp that sets
it apart from other sensibilities and
ultimately
why those of taste are drawn to it
is that it's an autores device well
granted it is possible to accidentally
step into Camp through a creative team's
misalignment of sensibilities however
it's much more difficult to generate
camp on purpose in order to create camp
with intent a very steady hand is
required of the creative team it can't
be artificially replicated by a
committee or a focus group a boardroom
of Executives can't create camp with a
checklist because as I mentioned of
sensibilities it is found in the
non-quantifiable elements of Framing and
delivery go too far and you make
something cringy there's a reason the
gays don't remember the live-action
Mario movie not going far enough is just
boring Die Another Day nearly killed the
bond franchise to know where the perfect
balance is which some creators may
accidentally step into you need to exist
within Camp and genuinely enjoy Camp to
understand it Barbie was able to be made
the way that it was because Greta Gerwig
did not have a whole lot of executive
oversight from Warner Brothers the so
she and other creators had an
opportunity to create they understood
camp in a way that many if not all
Executives would not after all the
Barbie movie was made while Executives
at Warner Discovery were desperately
trying to sort out a merger and dealing
with a studio that can't seem to hold on
to cash in spite of owning DC Harry
Potter Lord of the Rings Lego The Matrix
the Looney Tunes Batman Mortal Kombat
and The Conjuring when Camp is made
deliberately it is made by creatives
without executive oversight and as proof
that Executives have no idea what camp
is
cats
movies are not reality they're an
artistic version of reality
and for this reason Camp is perhaps a
more natural state of being
it recognizes the falseness of the real
world and how even the term reality is
fraudulent there is no universal truth
no matter how those of privilege like to
project their version of the truth as
universal
but we know us Outsiders we know that
truth is subjective we know that our
truth is not the truth of those who have
oppressed us
so we are drawn to this artistic vessel
that makes a mockery out of truth and
the social conventions we have been
rejected from
many of us may as well have been
rejected from reality itself and so we
make our own worlds our Barbie world we
build our dream houses and in them we
casually discuss the changing
manifestations of gender the way the
straight and CIS makes small talk over
the changing weather as the idea of the
stereotypical Barbie left Barbie land it
was because the idea of Barbie had
become real
it was no longer an ideal that little
girls could only hope to project into
their future this Barbie became
something little girls can actually grow
up to be and all of us outside the
confines of accepted normal long for
that in some capacity
many of us want to exist in these
Suburban spaces raising a family the way
the Straits would but that's not what
real means not for everyone
to be real is to be seen and
acknowledged in spite of lifestyle and
choices
to be taken as a for granted in what one
may expect to see to make no
justifications or exceptions to be
unexceptional and accepted to face no
friction for whatever one is or however
one would choose to live to be able to
justify one's own life regardless of
whether it is a choice or not without
needing to be born a certain way to
justify one's own existence
and whether swimming with the current or
against it we all want to feel as if we
exist
and someday soon the idea of Barbie May
no longer be just a concept
that a person who people think of as
less than women people of color queer
people really can be anything
as this idea enters into the real world
the original idea that facilitated her
is no longer just an idea
it becomes reality
ideas are fixed and static standing
still waiting to become real
the role we play
is deciding which ideas may become real
because anything really is possible
so don't let anyone
keep you inside of a box
oh and Barbie is absolutely asexual
foreign
thank you